Replace grouped-parameter lists with new syntax for argument groups. (#302)
amzn/ion-docs: src/macros-by-example.adoc

----

=== Argument Groups

The non-rest versions of multi-value parameters can be annoying to invoke, since they require the
use of `values` or some other template to produce the stream of values.  To streamline invocation,

> there's a special delimiting syntax for an _argument group_ collecting the

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
there is a special delimiting syntax for an _argument group_ collecting the
```

applicable sub-expressions.

[{nrm}]
----
(*macro* prices
  [(amount *number{asterisk}*),
   (currency *symbol*)]
  (*for* [(amt amount)]
    (price amt currency)))
----

Here, the parameter `amount` accepts any number of `*number*`s.
It's easy to provide exactly one:

----
(:prices 12.99 GBP) ⇒ {amount:12.99, currency:GBP}
----

To provide a non-singleton stream of values, use an _argument group_.
Inside an E-expression, a group starts with the digraph `(:` similar to a macro
invocation, but without a macro reference:

----
(:prices (:) GBP)       ⇒ _void_
(:prices (: 1) GBP)     ⇒ {amount:1, currency:GBP}
(:prices (: 1 2 3) GBP) ⇒ {amount:1, currency:GBP}
                          {amount:2, currency:GBP}
                          {amount:3, currency:GBP}
----

Within the group, the invocation can have any number of expressions that align

> with the parameter type.

Reviewer: What are the implications of "that align with the parameter type"? Does this require type checking of expression groups in the macro evaluator? (Seems like this might have some of the trouble of type vs encoding.)

Author: It should probably read "base encoding" or something; the terminology is muddled and inconsistent.  Also this would be clarified in the missing section tracked by #303 ... we somehow missed the section defining text E-expression syntax that would be affected by this PR.

The macro parameter produces the results of those expressions, concatenated into a
single stream, and the expander verifies that each value on that stream is acceptable by the
parameter’s declared type.

----
(:prices (: 1 (:values 2 3) 4) GBP) ⇒ {amount:1, currency:GBP}
                                      {amount:2, currency:GBP}
                                      {amount:3, currency:GBP}
                                      {amount:4, currency:GBP}
----

> Argument groups are allowed for parameters that do not have exactly-one cardinality.

Reviewer 2: Refreshingly simple. :)

// TODO
WARNING: The allowed combinations of cardinality and argument groups is pending
finalization of the binary encoding.

TIP: Rest parameters effectively use implicit groups at the call site, and they cannot be

> invoked with explicit groups.

Reviewer: Why not? We already have rules that define how to combine a stream in an expression group, allowing things like `(:prices (: 1 (:values 2 3) 4) GBP)`.

Is it legal to nest expression groups for non-"rest" parameters? E.g.: `(:prices (: 1 (: 2 3) 4) GBP)`

Reviewer 2: I think your question is conflating expression groups and `(:values ...)`, which this PR hopes to make into distinct entities.

> Is it legal to nest expression groups for non-"rest" parameters? E.g.: `(:prices (: 1 (: 2 3) 4) GBP)`

No, this isn't legal; expression groups can only appear in argument positions. It's easier to understand why when you consider the binary encoding.  Say this is the definition of your macro (borrowed from the doc):

```
(macro prices
  [(amount number*),(currency symbol)]
  // ...BODY EXPR...
)
```

When the binary reader encounters the `amount` argument, it will know to decode an expression group and decode its contents: a sequence of tagged values that must be `number`s. There is no opcode for "expression group", so there's no way to encode `(: 2 3)` within the outer expression group.

I think we _could_ allow an explicit expression group for a rest parameter in text, but I don't think we want to.

>> Rest parameters effectively use implicit groups at the call site, and they cannot be
invoked with explicit groups.

> Why not? We already have rules that define how to combine a stream in an expression group, allowing things like (:prices (: 1 (:values 2 3) 4) GBP).

We could permit it semantically, but it would be strictly redundant syntactically. As an example, let's flip `currency` and `amount` so the latter can be a rest parameter.

```
(macro prices
  [(currency symbol) (amount ...number)]
  // ...BODY EXPR...
)

(:prices USD 1 2 3 4)
(:prices USD (: 1 2 3 4)) // if we allowed "explicit rest"
```
We'd need to add an extra branch to support this, and I don't think it buys us much. In fact, I think that someone passing an explicit expression group to a `...` parameter is a helpful indication that they've misunderstood something and an opportunity to emit a helpful error message.

Author: @zslayton expresses my thinking well.  In particular, this is great:

> There is no opcode for "expression group"

The binary encoding of macro-shaped parameters are similarly tagless, eliding any opcodes
mentioning `point` and just writing its arguments with minimal delimiting.

Macro types can be combined with cardinality modifiers, with invocations using groups
as needed.  Note that grouping macro types require callers to use two layers of delimiting
containers:

[{nrm}]
----
(*macro* scatterplot
  [(points point *+*), (x_label *string*), (y_label *string*)]
  { points: [points], x_label: x_label, y_label: y_label })
----
----

> (:scatterplot (: (3 17) (395 23) (15 48) (2023 5)) "hour" "widgets")

Reviewer: 1. What would you think about having some syntax in the text encoding that is specific for macro-type arguments... something that looks like a macro invocation but has some symbol that indicates that the name is redundant in that position? (Strawman suggestion: `(:*` ... `)`.) It might help improve readability in cases where there are also s-exps in the macro arguments.
2. Suppose `point` can accept multiple coordinates, then one could have something like this?
```
(:scatterplot (: (3 (:17 18 19)) (395 23) (15 48) (2023 5)) "hour" "widgets")
```

Reviewer 2: I think this is something else that a more visually distinctive expression group would help to address.

> What would you think about having some syntax in the text encoding that is specific for macro-type arguments... something that looks like a macro invocation but has some symbol that indicates that the name is redundant in that position?

Something I really like about the expression group is that its contents are always--for any encoding, including macro-shaped--tied to the corresponding parameter's declared encoding. When an exactly-one parameter has a macro-shaped encoding, the text representation of that encoding is an s-expression containing the arguments to the declared macro. 

_(These examples use signature syntax from recent discussions instead of the as-specced syntax)_
```
(macro point2d (x y) /* body expr */)
(macro foo (point2d::x) /* body expr */)

(:foo (1 2))
```

When there's a macro-shaped expression group, it's an expression group that contains zero or more instances of the same sexp-of-args syntax.

```
(macro point2d (x y) /* body expr */)
(macro foo (point2d::x*) /* body expr */)

(:foo (: (1 2) (3 4) (5 6) ))
```

I think making macro-shaped expression groups into yet another construct would be added complexity for limited benefit.

Author: I think adding syntax for macro-encoded arguments defeats the purpose, which is to improve brevity.  I think

```
(:foo (: (:* 1 2) (:* 3 4) (:* 5 6)))
```
is significantly less human-friendly than:
```
(:foo (: (1 2) (3 4) (5 6)))
```

The concept also
* intersects with the ungrouped case: does one write `(:foo (1 2))` or `(:foo (:* 1 2))`?
* requires additional tokenization rules following the `(:*`
